Add basic copilot instructions based on our standards (#1194)
home-assistant/companion.home-assistant: .github/copilot-instructions.md

# GitHub Copilot instructions

This repository holds the documentation for our Home Assistant companion applications. The documentation is written in markdown and use Docusaurus as engine to generate the final website.

When writing in this repository you need to follow the defined guidelines.

## General guidelines

You should follow the general guidelines about writing a documentation from Microsoft and their Microsoft Style Guide.

1. **Be clear and concise**:
   - Use simple, straightforward language.
   - Avoid unnecessary jargon or overly complex sentences.

2. **Use active voice**:

>    - Write in the active voice whenever possible. For example, "Click the button" instead of "The button should be clicked."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Write in the active voice whenever possible.
```
I would remove this example. It violates the guidelines:
- [avoid click](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)
- [avoid talking about UI element](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/b/button). Refer to a button by its label only without using the word button.

3. **Follow Home Assistant standards**:
   - Ensure all documentation is consistent.
   - Use the correct formatting for code blocks, links, and headings.

4. **Adopt inclusive language**:
   - Avoid terms that may exclude or offend. For example, use "allowlist" instead of "whitelist."
   - Be objective and not gender favoring, polarizing, race related or religion inconsiderate

5. **Be consistent**:
   - Use consistent terminology, formatting, and structure throughout the documentation.

>    - Follow the capitalization and punctuation rules outlined in the Microsoft Style Guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Follow the rules outlined in the Microsoft Style Guide.
```
why just those? It should follow MS Style Guide in general. The list we have in the HA docs standard just show-cases a selection of the rules that are often violated.

## Formatting guidelines

1. **Headings**:

>    - Use sentence case capitalization, also in headings (e.g., "How to configure a device").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Use sentence-style capitalization, also in headings (for example, "How to configure a device").
```
- we [avoid e.g.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/eg)
- is this necessary to be listed explicitly? it is part of MSG.

   - Organize content with appropriate heading levels (`#`, `##`, `###`).

2. **Lists**:
   - Use numbered lists for sequential steps and bulleted lists for unordered items.
   - Keep list items parallel in structure.

3. **Code blocks**:

>    - Use fenced code blocks (```` ``` ````) with the appropriate language identifier (e.g., `yaml`, `python`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Use fenced code blocks (```` ``` ````) with the appropriate language identifier (for example, `yaml`, `python`).
```

   - Provide context or explanations for code snippets.

4. **Links**:
   - Use descriptive link text instead of raw URLs. For example, `[Home Assistant Standards](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/standards)`.

5. **Misc**
   - Don't put two spaces after a period.
   - There is no limit for the line length. You are allowed to write in a flowing text style.
   - Do not use ALL CAPITALS for emphasis - use _italics_ instead.
   - Use **bold** to markup UI strings, for example:
     - Under **Settings**, select the three dots menu. Then, select **Restart Home Assistant** > **Quick reload**.

## Writing style

1. **Audience awareness**:
   - Write for a global audience with varying levels of technical expertise.
   - Avoid idioms, cultural references, or region-specific terms.

2. **Second person**:
   - Address the reader directly using "you" to make the documentation more engaging.

3. **Avoid redundancy**:
   - Eliminate repetitive information unless it adds clarity.

4. **Use proper grammar and spelling**:
   - Proofread content for grammatical errors and typos.

>    - Use American English spelling (e.g., "color" instead of "colour").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Use American English spelling (for example, "color" instead of "colour").
```

>    - The case of brand names, services, protocols, integrations and platforms must match its respective counterpart. For example, "Z-Wave" _not_ "Zwave", "Z-wave", "Z Wave" or "ZWave". Also, "Input Select" _not_ "input select" or "Input select".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The case of brand names, services, protocols, integrations, and platforms must match their respective counterparts. For example, "Z-Wave" _not_ "Zwave", "Z-wave", "Z Wave" or "ZWave". Also, "Input Select" _not_ "input select" or "Input select".
```
We use the [Oxford comma](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/punctuation/commas)

Author: I copy pasted this from our docs so we need to fix it too.

Reviewer: https://github.com/home-assistant/developers.home-assistant/pull/2635

5. **Tables**

>    - Be succinct. Minimize the number of columns and keep the amount of text as short as possible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Avoid the use of tables. They are problematic on mobile. Use lists instead. If you cannot avoid a table, minimize the number of columns and keep the amount of text as short as possible:
```

>    - When limiting the amount of text is not possible, consider using other data structures for representing the information. For example, lists or `{% configuration_basic %}` can be used.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this. `{% configuration_basic %}` works in the companion docs? I think in HA, its use is limited to configuration information.

Author: You are most probably right.

6. **Misc**

>    - Use a serial comma (also known as the Oxford comma) before the conjunction in a list of three or more items. For example, "Through the use of additional adapters, Home Assistant allows the use of Zigbee, Z-Wave, and other protocols".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
- is it needed to mention this explicitly? It is standard MSG.

Author: It seems that Copilot is stupid enough to not extract the rules from MSG.
